README.md, before:

GitLab Pages
============

> GitHub Pages, for GitLab.

-----

![gitlab-pages](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/1885333/5892805/9ac6f59e-a4a2-11e4-8238-2c25584e1a60.gif)

## Author

[Glavin Wiechert (Glavin001)](https://github.com/Glavin001) - [Twitter @GlavinW](https://twitter.com/GlavinW) - [LinkedIn](ca.linkedin.com/in/glavin/)

## Installation

### Requirements

It requires [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/) to be installed. GitLab Pages will build Jekyll sites or simply copy content from non-jekyll sites to [`publicPagesDir`](https://github.com/Glavin001/GitLab-Pages/blob/master/default_config.js#L27).

### Step 1) Create your deploy key pair

Create a SSH key pair for GitLab to use as deploy keys.

```bash
ssh-keygen -t rsa -C "example@email.com" -f "$(pwd)/keys/id_rsa"
```

They should be in path `keys/id_rsa` and `keys/id_rsa.pub`.

### Step 2) Configure GitLab Pages server

Clone this repo and install it's necessary dependencies:

```bash
# Already cloned repo
npm install
bower install
```

Copy default config to custom config file.

```bash
cp default_config.js _config.js
```

Edit your new [_config.js](default_config.js) file for your setup.

### Step 3) Start your GitLab Pages server

And start the server!

```bash
npm start
```

## Deploy with Docker

Docker support is also available and the following env vars are used to configure the installation:
  * GITLAB_URL - Url to your gitlab server
  * DEPLOY_BRANCH - Specific branch that will be deployed when pushed
  * DEPLOY_PAGEDIR - Public directory of GitLab Pages
  * SERVER_URL - The public gitlab-pages server url

The /app/keys directory SHOULD be mount using docker volumes, this will allow you to use leave the ssh key outside of the docker. If the rsa key doesn't exist the docker_start.sh script will generate it.

### Profit!

Login using your GitLab User Token at [http://localhost:1337](http://localhost:1337).

## How It Works

1. User logs into Web UI, which authenticates against GitLab with **node-gitlab** and retrieves a private key for subsequent requests.
2. Select the Project to enable **GitLab Pages** support for it. Available Projects list is pulled from GitLab with **node-gitlab**.
3. The selected project will setup a *Deploy Key* and *Webhook* for **GitLab Pages**.
4. When the user [pushes](https://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/git-push.html) to **GitLab**, a webhook event is sent to **GitLab Pages** server.
5. The Webhook is handled by **gitlab-webhook** and the project is [pulled](http://git-scm.com/docs/git-pull) (or [cloned](http://git-scm.com/docs/git-clone)) with **nodegit** to the **GitLab Pages** configured clones install directory.
6. The `gl-pages` branch is [checked out](https://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/git-checkout.html) with **nodegit**. (This can optionally be configured to be `gh-pages` branch to work on both GitHub and GitLab).
7. The public content, a *GitLab Page*, is served using [Expressjs](http://expressjs.com/). Each project will be served from a different subdirectory in the form of [`server.publicUrl`](https://github.com/Glavin001/GitLab-Pages/blob/master/default_config.js#L37)/pages/:username/:projectName/. It is recommended that the [`publicPagesDir`](https://github.com/Glavin001/GitLab-Pages/blob/master/default_config.js#L27) be served using [Nginx](http://wiki.nginx.org/) or [Apache](http://www.apache.org/). 

## Libraries & Tools
- [Node.js](http://nodejs.org/)
- [Express](http://expressjs.com/)
- [NodeGit](https://github.com/nodegit/nodegit)
- [Node-GitLab](https://github.com/moul/node-gitlab)
- [GitLab-Webhook](https://npmjs.org/package/gitlab-webhook)

Commit message:

Added a note about deploy keys

README.md, after:

GitLab Pages
============

> GitHub Pages, for GitLab.

-----

![gitlab-pages](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/1885333/5892805/9ac6f59e-a4a2-11e4-8238-2c25584e1a60.gif)

## Author

[Glavin Wiechert (Glavin001)](https://github.com/Glavin001) - [Twitter @GlavinW](https://twitter.com/GlavinW) - [LinkedIn](ca.linkedin.com/in/glavin/)

## Installation

### Requirements

It requires [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/) to be installed. GitLab Pages will build Jekyll sites or simply copy content from non-jekyll sites to [`publicPagesDir`](https://github.com/Glavin001/GitLab-Pages/blob/master/default_config.js#L27).

### Step 1) Create your deploy key pair

Create a SSH key pair for GitLab to use as deploy keys.

```bash
ssh-keygen -t rsa -C "example@email.com" -f "$(pwd)/keys/id_rsa"
```

They should be in path `keys/id_rsa` and `keys/id_rsa.pub`.

### Step 2) Configure GitLab Pages server

Clone this repo and install it's necessary dependencies:

```bash
# Already cloned repo
npm install
bower install
```

Copy default config to custom config file.

```bash
cp default_config.js _config.js
```

Edit your new [_config.js](default_config.js) file for your setup.

### Step 3) Start your GitLab Pages server

And start the server!

```bash
npm start
```

## Deploy with Docker

Docker support is also available and the following env vars are used to configure the installation:
  * GITLAB_URL - Url to your gitlab server
  * DEPLOY_BRANCH - Specific branch that will be deployed when pushed
  * DEPLOY_PAGEDIR - Public directory of GitLab Pages
  * SERVER_URL - The public gitlab-pages server url

The /app/keys directory SHOULD be mount using docker volumes, this will allow you to use leave the ssh key outside of the docker. If the rsa key doesn't exist the docker_start.sh script will generate it.

### Profit!

Login using your GitLab User Token at [http://localhost:1337](http://localhost:1337).

## How It Works

1. User logs into Web UI, which authenticates against GitLab with **node-gitlab** and retrieves a private key for subsequent requests.
2. Select the Project to enable **GitLab Pages** support for it. Available Projects list is pulled from GitLab with **node-gitlab**.
3. The selected project will setup a *Deploy Key* and *Webhook* for **GitLab Pages**. (Note: when adding a Deploy Key, type "GitLab Pages" as a Title)
4. When the user [pushes](https://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/git-push.html) to **GitLab**, a webhook event is sent to **GitLab Pages** server.
5. The Webhook is handled by **gitlab-webhook** and the project is [pulled](http://git-scm.com/docs/git-pull) (or [cloned](http://git-scm.com/docs/git-clone)) with **nodegit** to the **GitLab Pages** configured clones install directory.
6. The `gl-pages` branch is [checked out](https://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/git-checkout.html) with **nodegit**. (This can optionally be configured to be `gh-pages` branch to work on both GitHub and GitLab).
7. The public content, a *GitLab Page*, is served using [Expressjs](http://expressjs.com/). Each project will be served from a different subdirectory in the form of [`server.publicUrl`](https://github.com/Glavin001/GitLab-Pages/blob/master/default_config.js#L37)/pages/:username/:projectName/. It is recommended that the [`publicPagesDir`](https://github.com/Glavin001/GitLab-Pages/blob/master/default_config.js#L27) be served using [Nginx](http://wiki.nginx.org/) or [Apache](http://www.apache.org/). 

## Libraries & Tools
- [Node.js](http://nodejs.org/)
- [Express](http://expressjs.com/)
- [NodeGit](https://github.com/nodegit/nodegit)
- [Node-GitLab](https://github.com/moul/node-gitlab)
- [GitLab-Webhook](https://npmjs.org/package/gitlab-webhook)
